# Using Styled Components

There's a good amount of debate over whether CSS should ever be co-mingled with JS or whether those concerns should remain separate. Regardless of where you stand on this debate we'd like to pitch our own defense of Styled Components here and hopefully show that Styled Components are not as disruptive as they might appear.

## What's a Styled Component?

A Styled Component is a React component generated by the `styled-components` module. It works by importing the `styled()` function into your component file and allows you to rapidly create a reusable component by specifying an HTML element and then passing along your CSS styles. Although they might live within your React code or get imported into various components from a master list of styled components they in fact get compiled down to a stylesheet and are not inline styles.

## Creating a Styled Component

If we wanted to create a reusable component that was a simple circular div element with a width and height of 25px and a background color of 'tomato' we'd simply create the component like this anywhere in our component file:

```
const Tomato = styled.div`
	width: 25px;
	height: 25px;
	background: tomato;
	border-radius: 50%;
`;

```

Presuming that our styled component is accessible to our main component we could then use the styled component like this:


```
import React from 'react'
import styled from 'styled-components'

const TomatoBox = () => {
	return(
		<div>
			<Tomato/>
			<Tomato/>
			<Tomato/>
		</div>
	)
};

const Tomato = styled.div`
	width: 25px;
	height: 25px;
	background: tomato;
	border-radius: 50%;
`;

export default TomatoBox
```

You should be noticing a few things...

First, we're using the convention of naming our styled component with a capial letter. It is a component after all and should follow the same React convention of naming a stateless functional component or class component with a capital letter.

Second, we're no longer restricted to using the JS CSS property syntax that we might occasionally see in React components that have their styles defined in JS, namely, as an object with camelCase property names e.g.

```
const tomatoStyle = {
	width: '25px',
	height: '25px,
	borderRadius: '50%'
}
```

And then passing it to our HTML element's style attribute like so:
`<div style={tomatoStyle}/>`

The styled component way of altering our styles has a couple of immediate advantages. By using styled components we make it easier for users not familar with the JS style syntax to come in and edit things. Everything passed to `styled()` is raw unflavored CSS. And as was previously mentioned, the styles are not inline! So your concerns can stay reasonably separated.

And lastly, you might be noticing that the syntax is a little odd, but is in fact, completely normal.

The `styled` function takes advantage of the template tag feature of ES6 and allows you to pass a template literal string as a single argument without parens.
If you've never seen this before it can look VERY weird, but it is in fact 100% valid JavaScript and the syntax itself is by no means unique to Styled Components! Check out [Wes Bos' blog post on this topic](https://wesbos.com/tagged-template-literals/) to get familiar.

There are many advanced features of styled components that are outside the scope of this tutorial, but you can head over to [Styled Components](https://www.styled-components.com/) to get a better feel for what they are capable of and what they aren't.

It's worth a brief mention that Styled Components take advantage of SCSS syntax, so if you're used to using SASS/SCSS conventions you'll find yourself quite at home with styled components.

## Your Turn

Let's Try re-creating our box of tomatoes within the `MyComponent.js` file.

- Import the `styled` function into our project file by placing this under the dependencies heading below where we've imported `React from 'react'`:

  - `import 'styled' from 'styled-components';`

- Create a stateless functional component named `TomatoBox` and place it before the MyComponent declaration.

  - `const TomatoBox = (props) => <div> { props.children } </div>`

  - We're passing `props` and adding `props.children` to our render block inside the div so our tomatoes will render when placed inside our box.

  - Apply some inline styles by creating a boxStyles object above our newly minted TomatoBox and pass it to the style attribute on the `TomatoBox` div like so:

    - `const tomatoBoxStyle = { border: 'solid 1px white', margin: '10px', width: '100px' };`

    - `<div style={tomatoBoxStyle}>{props.children}</div>`

- Next create a Tomato component using styled components like we did above.
  - Add a new property padding of 10px so the tomatoes have some space to breathe.
  - And finally within MyComponent create a TomatoBox and place a few Tomato components inside.

- Your final code should look something like this:

```
import React from 'react';
import styled from 'styled-components';

const tomatoBoxStyle = { border: 'solid 1px white', margin: '10px', width: '100px' }
const TomatoBox = (props) => <div style={tomatoBoxStyle}> { props.children } </div>

const MyComponent = () => (
  <div id="MyComponent">
    <TomatoBox>
      <Tomato/>
      <Tomato/>
      <Tomato/>
    </TomatoBox>
  </div>
);

const Tomato = styled.div`
  width: 25px;
  height: 25px;
  margin: 10px;
  background: tomato;
  border-radius: 50%;
`;

export default MyComponent;
```

At this point you should be seeing a few small tomato colored circles popping up in a div with a white border in the [MyComponent UI](#MyComponent) window below.

**Extra Credit!**

  - Get rid of our TomatoBox component and tomatoBoxStyle declarations and instead create a single styled component with the same name that achieves the same result.

  - **Hint:** *Styled Components will render any children placed inside of them.*
